Developing applications with the serverless framework
from scratch has a few specific steps.
Let's take a look at each of them now before we apply them to our first project.
First,
we'll highlight how to start up your service and install your dependencies.
Then we'll look at some configuration settings.
And while the next step would be writing our own function code,
we'll postpone that for the demo that we're creating at the end of the module.
We'll also highlight how the serverless deployment process works,
and some options you have for deploying your applications,
as well as some things to think about so you can test
your applications effectively later on.
The first thing you would usually do to create a new service
is to create a new service from a template.
You could use this command to create a simple node.
js service in a directory called servicename.
After you create the node service,
you would run an npm init and then npm install any node
dependencies that you wanted to use.
Next, you'd open up your serverless.
yml file and specify the details of the service,
which at a minimum would include the service name,
the provider and runtime, and the functions that you're using in your service,
along with the events that trigger them.
In this example, the filename would be handler.
js, and the function name in that file would be woofGardenEmailer.
As you can see, we also set a scheduled event that runs every three days.
We'll come back to this configuration in a moment
when we're writing our application.
Again, since we'll be writing our own code in a moment,
we'll get back to that part later.
But for now,
let's look at what happens when we're all done writing
our service and we'd like to deploy it.
When we're ready, we can run the serverless deploy command.
This command will deploy or update our entire application.
We'll always need to run the specific command the
first time we deploy our service.
Remember, if you're feeling lazy,
you can always replace serverless with sls and any serverless command.
After we deploy our service for the first time,
we can also run sls deploy function, and pass in a function name as an argument.
This deploys only the function and skips the rest of the deployment process.
This speeds up large deployments considerably.
Function names are case sensitive,
so be sure to match the function name in the serverless.
yml file exactly.
Also, keep in mind that the function name in serverless.
yml is not necessarily the same as the name of the function inside your handler.
js file.
This might be a little confusing at the moment,
but I promise I'll go into more detail when we work on our demo.
Finally,
you can also use the sls deploy package command to specify
our particular package to deploy to AWS.
But we won't be using this option in the course,
as it's primarily reserved for integration with continuous
integration and continuous deployment pipelines.
You may also want to remove your service in the future.
You can do this with the sls or serverless remove command.
But what actually happens in the background when we run these commands?
Let's take a look.
The first thing that happens when we run a command like serverless
deploy is that the framework reviews our serverless.
yml file, and then creates a CloudFormation template from that file.
It also zips up the function code and dependencies and
sends that over to AWS S3 for later use.
The CloudFormation template is then passed to AWS to create
any resources for the service that we need.
This includes things like APIs, databases,
or other resources required for the service.
CloudFormation also then creates the functions themselves from the
zipped deployment packages that were stored in S3.
And when everything is finished,
the serverless framework displays the successful status of the deployment.
Now let's briefly go over how we can set our function code
up to be more testable in the future.
In general,
we'll want to look farther ahead than this course when
building the serverless framework applications.
To do this, we'll want to think about writing testable function code.
Notice I didn't say testable lambda functions.
This is because our function code could be usable on
other infrastructure providers entirely.
On this subject,
try to separate business logic out from the
infrastructure specific code that you're writing.
For example,
if in the future you like to replace a particular
component that sends emails for another one completely on
a different infrastructure provider,
it will be much easier if the business logic is already
separated from the mailer itself.
This will also make it easier to run unit tests for the business logic and
then develop integration tests with the services used. With all of this information in mind, let's make our first service.